SCAN USER AGREEMENT

Version 2018.1

The accompanying Documentation, software and service (collectively,
the “Software”) is provided under the following terms and conditions
and any supplemental terms referenced below and your right to use
the Software is conditioned upon your acceptance of this Scan User
Agreement (this “Agreement”).

If you do not accept the terms and conditions of this Agreement,
you may not use the Software.

The Software is the proprietary information of Synopsys, Inc. (“We”,
“Us”, “Our”) or Our suppliers who retain exclusive title to their
intellectual property rights therein. Your rights to use the Software
are limited to those expressly granted below and We reserve all
rights not expressly granted in this Agreement. Nothing in this
Agreement shall be deemed to confer any third party rights or
benefits.

The terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement contain all
terms and conditions applicable to Your use of the Software. A
“Registered Project Acknowledgement” is a document from Us which
references this Agreement and identifies the Software and the
respective rights being licensed hereunder, including the Registered
Product Use (License Type, quantity, subscription period) and the
identity of Your Registered Project. “Registered Project Use” means
Your use of the Software for the purpose of developing, analyzing,
building and testing open source programming code being developed
as part of Your Registered Project. “Documentation” means the user
documentation, in written, electronic or other format, which
describes Our Software and its operation and which We make generally
available to Our users. “License Type” means the usage rights
licensed under the applicable Registered Project. License Types
offered by Us from time to time can be found at
http://www.coverity.com/html/licensetype.html. “Registered Project”
means the Scan member project registered with and approved by Us
at scan.coverity.com. “Service” means the service provided by Us
in conjunction with the Software at scan.coverity.com and/or other
web pages designated by Us for use with respect to Your Registered
Project. “Software” means, where applicable, the specific products
and Documentation provided by Us in conjunction with the Service
at scan.coverity.com and used in conjunction with a Registered
Project.

Subject to Your (a) receipt of Our Registered Project Acknowledgement
and (b) compliance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement,
You will be entitled to use the Software and the results of analysis
from the use of the Software on the applicable Registered Project.
We hereby grant You a nonexclusive, non-transferable license to
use the Software and the results of analysis from Your use of the
Software to the extent permitted by Your compliance with these
terms, solely for internal Registered Project Use by You. We will
provide You with electronic access to the results of analysis
provided by use of the Software on Your Registered Product and
access will be deemed to occur upon the Software being available
for Your use in conjunction with Your Registered Project.

Except as permitted elsewhere in the Agreement, the rights granted
to You are conditional upon Your compliance with the following
obligations: You will not copy the Software (including the
Documentation or Services provided in conjunction with the Software),
in whole or in part, except as expressly authorized in this Agreement
and the Registered Project Acknowledgement; You will not transfer,
assign, lease, lend or rent, the Software (including the Documentation
or Services provided in conjunction with the Software), use the
Software to provide service bureau, time-sharing or other services,
or otherwise provide or make the functionality thereof available
to third parties except as expressly authorized in this Agreement;
You will not disassemble, decompile, reverse engineer, modify or
create derivative works of the Software (including the Documentation
or Services provided in conjunction with the Software) nor permit
any third party to do so, except to the extent such restrictions
are prohibited by applicable mandatory local law; You will not
allow access or use of the Software by, and will not display the
Software’s user interfaces to anyone without Our prior express
written consent; You will not disclose to any third party any
comparison of the results of operation of the Software, except as
expressly permitted by this Agreement; You will not delete or in
any manner alter the copyright, trademark or other proprietary
rights notices appearing in the Software as delivered by Us; You
will use the Software only in accordance with this Agreement and
the applicable Registered Project Acknowledgement; and You will
not use the Software to store or transmit any malicious code,
interfere with or disrupt the integrity of the Software, or attempt
to gain unauthorized access to the Software or its related systems
or networks.

Your use of and access to the Software may be monitored and regulated
through a license management tool (a “License Manager”). The License
Manager will report such data (collectively, “Use and Compliance
Data”) to Us. You will not use the Software in a manner that
circumvents or interferes with the operation of the License Manager
or any other technological measure that controls access to the
Software.

The Software may contain open source or community source software
(“Open Source Software”) provided under separate license terms (the
“Open Source License Terms”). The applicable Open Source License
Terms are provided to You upon request. Your use of the Open Source
Software in conjunction with the Software in a manner consistent
with the terms of this Agreement is permitted, however, You may
have broader rights under the applicable Open Source License Terms
and nothing in this Agreement is intended to impose further
restrictions on Your use of the Open Source Software.

You may choose to, but are not required to, provide suggestions,
data, feedback and other information to Us regarding possible
improvements in the operation, functionality or use of the Software.
You hereby grant to Us, without charge, the right to use, copy,
modify and create derivative works of any such suggestions, data,
feedback and information for the purpose of (i) improving the
operation, functionality or use of Our existing and future product
and service offerings and commercializing such offerings; and (ii)
publishing statistics about software quality of the Registered
Project. All data obtained from the License Manager shall be deemed
Feedback.

We agree to provide You those authorization keys and/or passwords
which are necessary to permit You to gain access to the Software
which has been properly licensed to You in accordance with this
Agreement and the applicable Registered Project Acknowledgement.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement or any
Registered Project Acknowledgement, You hereby acknowledge that
You shall have no right or license to any software made available
to You for any service or software which has not been properly
licensed to You pursuant to this Agreement, that any such service
or software has been included therein solely as a matter of
convenience, and that You further agree not to attempt to gain
access to, or permit any third party to attempt to gain access to,
such software.

“Confidential Information” means: (a) The Software, in byte code
or source code form; (b) any authorization keys and passwords
delivered in order to operate the Software; (c) Documentation, Our
product road maps and development plans; (d) any results of operation
from use of the Software; (e) functionality of Our system when
accessing the Software; and (f) any of Our business, technical or
training information. Confidential Information does not include
information that: (a) is or becomes generally known or available
to the public through no act or omission by You; (b) is rightfully
known by You prior to receiving such information from Us and without
restriction as to use or disclosure; (c) is independently developed
by You without use of Our Confidential Information and without
breach of this Agreement; or (d) is rightfully received by You from
a third party without restriction on use or disclosure. The existence
of this Agreement and the nature of the business relationship
between the parties are not considered Confidential Information.
You will not use Our Confidential Information except as necessary
to exercise the rights granted under this Agreement and You will
not disclose such Confidential Information to any person or entity.
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, You agree that
You will not post the images of the Software or the results of the
analysis provided by the use of the Software. The foregoing
obligations will not restrict You from disclosing Our Confidential
Information pursuant to the order or requirement of a court,
administrative agency, or other governmental body, provided that
You give Us reasonable notice to contest such order or requirement.
You acknowledge that violations of the covenants and obligations
of this Agreement may cause Us irreparable injury for which an
adequate remedy at law may not be available. Therefore, We shall
be entitled to seek all remedies that may be available under equity,
including immediate injunctive relief, in addition to whatever
remedies may be available at law.

We do not warrant that the Software will meet Your requirements,
that the operation of the Software will be error-free or uninterrupted,
that the Software will be made available to You for any guaranteed
uptimes, or that the Software will discover all errors and
vulnerabilities that may reside in the Registered Project or any
associated code bases. The Software is being provided to You "AS
IS." WE DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES, CONDITIONS AND REPRESENTATIONS,
EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING THOSE RELATED TO
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, SATISFACTORY
QUALITY, ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF RESULTS, CONFORMANCE WITH
DESCRIPTION, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS.
WE AND OUR SUPPLIERS SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIM ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
CONDITIONS AND REPRESENTATIONS ARISING OUT OF COURSE OF DEALING,
USAGE OR TRADE. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, this
Agreement does not limit liability due to death or personal injury
caused by gross negligence, or liability due to fraudulent
misrepresentations or willful conduct, or liability arising from
breaches of confidentiality obligations or license grants or
conditions hereunder. SUBJECT TO THE FOREGOING SENTENCE, IN NO
EVENT WILL WE, OR OUR SUPPLIERS, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR ANY SPECIAL,
INCIDENTAL, PUNITIVE, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING
LOSS OF USE, DATA, BUSINESS OR PROFITS, REVENUE, GOODWILL, ANTICIPATED
SAVINGS) OR FOR THE COST OF PROCURING SUBSTITUTE PRODUCTS OR SERVICES
ARISING OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT, WHETHER BASED UPON CONTRACT, WARRANTY,
TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), FAILURE OF A REMEDY TO ACCOMPLISH ITS
PURPOSE, STRICT LIABILITY OR OTHERWISE, AND EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. You may have other rights under
applicable mandatory local laws. This Agreement does not change
Your rights under applicable mandatory local laws if such laws do
not permit it to do so. Our cumulative liability to You for all
claims of any kind resulting from Our performance or breach of this
Agreement or the Software furnished hereunder shall not exceed
$100. We would not be able to provide the Software without the
limitations set forth herein.

Either party will have the right to terminate this Agreement and
any license granted thereunder at any time on receipt of notice
from the other party. Termination of this Agreement under this
section terminates all Registered Project Acknowledgements and
rights granted to You to the Software. Upon termination or expiration
of this Agreement or a Registered Project, all Software licenses
and rights to use the Software and Confidential Information that
are granted thereunder shall terminate. Upon termination of this
Agreement, You will promptly return to Us or destroy the applicable
Software and Confidential Information and all copies and portions
thereof, in all forms and types of media, including any results of
operation from use of the Software.

All terms and conditions of this Agreement which by their nature
and intent that intended to survive termination of this Agreement
will survive the termination or expiration of this Agreement or of
any Registered Project.

You agree that We may use Your name and logo (in a form approved
by You) and Registered Product information to identify You and such
project as a participant of Our Scan Program on Our website or in
Our marketing or publicity materials or in any filings made in
connection with state or federal securities laws. You agree that
the Software is subject to the export control laws and regulations
of the United States, including but not limited to the Export
Administration Regulations (“EAR”), and sanctions regulations of
the U.S. Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets
Control and that You will comply with these laws and regulations.
Without limiting the foregoing, if any of the Software governed by
this Agreement, or the direct product of the Software (each, a
“Controlled Product”), is subject to the national security controls
as identified on the Commerce Control List (the “Controlled
Products”), You will not, without a U.S. Bureau of Industry and
Security license or license exception, export, re-export, or transfer
a Controlled Product, either directly or indirectly, to any national
of any country identified in Country Groups D:1 or E:1 as defined
in the EARs. In addition, the Software may not be exported,
re-exported, or transferred to (a) any person or entity listed on
the “Entity List”, “Denied Persons List” or the list of “Specifically
Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons" as such lists are maintained
by the U.S. Government, or (b) an end-user engaged in activities
related to weapons of mass destruction. Such activities include
but are not necessarily limited to activities related to: (i) the
design, development, production, or use of nuclear materials,
nuclear facilities, or nuclear weapons; (ii) the design, development,
production, or use of missiles or support of missiles projects;
and (iii) the design, development, production, or use of chemical
or biological weapons. You will, at Synopsys’ request, demonstrate
compliance with all such applicable export laws, restrictions, and
regulations. You may not assign this Agreement, in whole or in
part, by operation of law or otherwise. Any attempt to assign this
Agreement without such consent will be void and of no effect.
Subject to the foregoing, this Agreement will bind and inure to
the benefit of each party’s permitted successors and assigns. This
Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the
laws of the State of California excluding that body of laws known
as conflicts of law. Both parties expressly agree that the United
Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods
will not apply. Any legal action or proceeding arising under this
Agreement will be brought exclusively in the federal or state courts
located in the Northern District of California and the parties
irrevocably consent to the personal jurisdiction and venue therein.
Except as expressly set forth in this Agreement, the exercise by
either party of any of its remedies under this agreement will be
without prejudice to its other remedies under this Agreement or
otherwise. Neither party will be responsible for any failure or
delay in its performance under this Agreement due to causes beyond
its reasonable control, including, but not limited to, labor
disputes, strikes, lockouts, shortages of or inability to obtain
labor, energy, raw materials or supplies, war, terrorism, riot,
natural disasters or governmental action. In addition to the Use
and Compliance Data collected by the License Manager, You will
monitor and track access to and use of the Service and the Software.
At Our written request, You will furnish Us with a certification
signed by Your authorized party providing user or access information
that identifies whether the Software is being used in accordance
with the terms of this Agreement. Upon at least thirty (30) days
prior written notice, We may engage, at Our expense, an independent
auditor to audit Your use of the Software to ensure that You are
in compliance with the terms of this Agreement. All notices required
or permitted under this Agreement will be in writing. Notices will
be effective upon delivery if delivered in person and upon mailing
if delivered by courier service, overnight delivery services or by
a form of certified or express mail. Notices affecting this Agreement
as a whole will be sent to the address You provided Us upon acceptance
of this Agreement, if any, or to such other address of a party as
such party may identify in writing; notices related to a particular
transaction will be sent to the primary corporate addresses set
forth in the Registered Project acknowledgement or to such other
address as You or Us may notify the other party in writing. This
Agreement, including all Registered Project acknowledgements
referencing this Agreement, constitute the complete and exclusive
understanding and agreement between the parties regarding its
subject matter and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous agreements
or understandings, written or oral, relating to its subject matter.
Failure to enforce any provision of this Agreement will not constitute
a waiver of future enforcement of that or any other provision. Any
waiver, modification or amendment of this Agreement will be effective
only if in writing and signed by You and an authorized representative
of Us. If for any reason a court of competent jurisdiction finds
any provision of this Agreement invalid or unenforceable, that
provision will be enforced to the maximum extent permissible and
the other provisions of this Agreement will remain in full force
and effect. The word “including” when used in this Agreement will
mean including without limitation of the generality of any description,
definition, term or phrase preceding that word.

You shall comply with Our terms of use policy (“TOU”), incorporated
herein by reference and accessible at [NEW URL]. We may update its
TOU from time to time, and such changes shall be incorporated herein
by reference automatically.

The Software is “Commercial Computer Software” as defined under
FAR 252.227-7014. If You are subject to the Defense Federal
Acquisition Resolutions (DFAR), the license to use Our Commercial
Computer Software and associated documentation are sold pursuant
to Our standard commercial license pursuant to DFARS 227.7202-1.Commercial
Products. For all other government customers, use, duplication, or
disclosure by the U.S. Government is subject to restrictions set
forth in subparagraph (b)(2) of Commercial Computer Software License
48 CFR 52.227-19, as applicable. The use of the Software is provided
for ultimate end use by the federal government with federal government
rights being limited to those rights customarily provided to the
public as defined in this Agreement. The use of the Software is
provided in accordance with FAR 12.211 (Technical Data) and, for
use of the Software provided to Department of Defense customers,
DFAR 252.227-7015 (Technical Data – Commercial Items). No additional
rights are granted to any federal government customers than those
set forth in this Agreement and any applicable Registered Project
acknowledgement.

This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which will
be deemed an original, but all of which together will constitute
one and the same instrument. An originally executed version of this
Agreement or any Exhibit or attachment, that is delivered by one
party to the other party, as evidence of signature, by facsimile,
or by electronic mail after having been scanned as an image file
(including, Adobe PDF, TIF, etc.) shall, for all purposes hereof,
be deemed an original signature and neither party shall have the
right to object to the manner in which the Agreement was executed
as a defense to the enforcement of the Agreement. The English
language version of this Agreement shall prevail over any translations
of this Agreement. You agree that the Uniform Computer Information
Transaction Act or any version thereof, adopted by any state, in
any form (" UCITA"), shall not apply to this Agreement. To the
extent that UCITA is applicable, the parties agree to opt out of
the applicability of UCITA pursuant to the opt-out provision(s)
contained therein.

END OF TERMS

https://scan.coverity.com/policy
