security/KeePass: update to 2.59

Changes from 2.44 to 2.45:
New features:

Added support for opening URLs with the new (Chromium-based) Microsoft Edge in private mode.
Added support for opening URLs with Vivaldi in private mode.
Added automatic assignment of mnemonics for 'Open with ...' commands in the 'URL(s)' menu.
The entry templates menu now supports showing templates that are stored in subgroups of the templates group; each subgroup is displayed as a submenu.
When adding a new entry based on a template that has an empty user name, the user name is now set to the default user name of the database, unless the new entry is stored in the templates group.
When adding a new entry based on a template that has an empty password, a random password is generated now (based on the password generator profile 'Automatically generated passwords for new entries'), unless the new entry is stored in the templates group.
When adding a new entry based on a template that does not expire, the expiry date is now set based on the option 'By default, new entries expire in the following number of days' (in 'Tools' → 'Options' → tab 'Security'), unless the new entry is stored in the templates group.
New icon recoloring (with high DPI support, by deconstructing an ICO, modifying BMP palettes and data, and assembling a new ICO); there are 24 database colors now.
Added {UUID} placeholder, which is replaced by the UUID of the current entry.
The UUID of a group is now displayed in the group editing dialog (tab 'General').
When specifying a weak master password in the master key creation dialog, KeePass now shows a warning.
Triggers: added string comparison mode 'Matches regular expression'.
Enforced configuration: added support for attributes that allow to specify the desired merge behavior.
Enforced configuration: for most lists, node keys are now used to find corresponding list items.
Plugins: added I/O connection event for customizing web requests.
Added workaround for Mono pre-authenticated anonymous web request bug.
Improvements:

Auto-Type: improved compatibility with VMware Horizon Client and Kaseya Live Connect.
Enhanced detection of Microsoft Edge.
The 'Open with ...' commands in the 'URL(s)' menu are sorted now.
Improved performance of the entry templates menu; removed limitation to 30 templates.
Database descriptions are now displayed in file tab tooltips.
When editing an attachment directly from the main window, a history entry is created now.
UUIDs in the group and entry editing dialogs are now displayed both in hexadecimal and base 64 form.
Improved Bitwarden import module to support JSON files without groups.
If the trigger system is disabled using an enforced configuration file, most controls in the triggers dialog are disabled now, too.
Plugins: an I/O access event is now raised when checking the existence of a local database file.
In texts that are about to be displayed in a rich text box, U+FFFC characters are now replaced by question marks (in order to avoid the text being cut off at this point).
When running on Mono 5.10 or higher, a monospaced font is used in password text boxes by default again, as the Mono bug 5795 has been fixed.
Various code optimizations.
Minor other improvements.
Bugfixes:

Fixed a default value type problem in the hot key configuration settings.
Database file tab colors are now rounded to the nearest supported colors.

Changes from 2.45 to 2.46:
New features:

The entry editing dialog can now edit all currently selected entries at once.
As entry attachment icons, the icons associated with the respective file types (in the system settings) are used now.
When running on .NET 4.8 or higher, secure connections (e.g. for WebDAV) now support TLS 1.3.
Added keyboard shortcut Ctrl+* (numeric keypad) for the 'Expand Recursively' group command.
Added keyboard shortcut Ctrl+/ (numeric keypad) for the 'Collapse Recursively' group command.
Right-clicking on the header of the main entry list now shows the 'Configure Columns' command.
The {VKEY ...} command now supports some flags (for specifying whether to send a key down or up event only and/or whether to send an extended key).
Added configuration option for protecting KeePass windows against certain screen capture operations.
Added command line parameter '-wa-enable:' for enabling specific Mono workarounds.
On Unix-like systems with a Wayland compositor, KeePass (with the KPUInput plugin) can now auto-type the default sequence and manually selected sequences of the currently selected entry.
Improvements:

Improved quality of the icons in the entry 'URL(s)' menu.
Improved quality of the icons in the drop-down list of the 'Override URL' field in the entry editing dialog.
Improved control state updating in the entry editing dialog.
The file selection dialog for the Generic CSV Importer now shows only CSV, TSV, TAB, TXT and ASC files by default.
Improved user interface of the Generic CSV Importer.
For large texts containing probably invalid characters, the internal data viewer now shortens the text and provides a 'Show more' link for expanding the text; this ensures a responsive user interface in this case.
Improved caching of dialog banners.
Moved the help source selection from the 'Help' main menu to the options dialog (tab 'Integration').
If the application policy option 'Export - No Key Repeat' is turned off, the master key must now be entered directly before the export is performed, i.e. after choosing the format and the target.
The application policy option 'Export - No Key Repeat' now also applies to the trigger action 'Export active database'.
When running on Mono, the options 'Focus quick search box when restoring from taskbar' and 'Focus quick search box when restoring from tray' are disabled now (because they do not work reliably due to a bug in Mono).
Various code optimizations.
Minor other improvements.
Bugfixes:

The attachment button drop-down menus in the entry editing dialog now use the correct font.
The 'Tools' button in the entry editing dialog is not disabled for TAN entries anymore.

Changes from 2.46 to 2.47:
New features:

In the 'Find' dialog, search parameters can now be saved as profiles; the profiles can be accessed quickly via the main menu ('Find' → 'Search Profiles') and the group context menu.
Added search mode 'XPath expression' in the 'Find' dialog, which creates a KeePass 2.x XML DOM of the current database in memory and finds entries using the specified XPath expression.
Added option 'History' in the 'Find' dialog, which includes history entries in searches.
Added 'Help' button in the 'Find' dialog.
Added auto-type matching option 'Consider similar dashes as identical' (in 'Tools' → 'Options' → tab 'Advanced', turned on by default).
Added commands 'Copy Group (Encrypted)', 'Copy Group (Unencrypted)' and 'Paste Group' (in the menu 'Group' → 'Data Exchange').
When loading/saving a configuration file fails, an error message is displayed now, and in certain cases a backup of the configuration file is created (the path is mentioned in the error message).
Added configuration option for saving the configuration (turned on by default).
On the 'Security' tab page of the options dialog, two links have been added, which open help pages for experts and administrators.
Added {TIMEOTP} placeholder, which generates a time-based one-time password (as specified in RFC 6238).
Enhanced XML key file format (added hash that allows to verify the integrity of the key; values are now encoded using hexadecimal characters in order to improve the readability).
Added command 'Print Key File Backup' (in 'File' → 'Print').
In the dialog that asks whether to print an emergency sheet, there is now an option 'Also print a key file backup' (on Windows), if the master key contains a key file.
Added command 'Create Key File' (in 'Tools' → 'Advanced Tools'), which shows a dialog for creating a new key file (random key) or for recreating a key file from a printed backup.
Added Argon2id key derivation function.
Added support for importing Dashlane 6.2039.0 JSON files.
Dashlane and RoboForm import: domains are now mapped to HTTPS URLs (instead of HTTP URLs).
Added option 'Use a different master key' in the import/export dialog (tab page 'Options').
Added option 'Additionally export parent groups' in the import/export dialog (tab page 'Options').
Added options 'Open exported file (with associated application)' and 'Show exported file (with file manager)' in the import/export dialog (tab page 'Options').
The 'About' dialog now shows whether KeePass is currently running as 32- or 64-bit application.
Plugins can now disable/enable specific Mono workarounds.
Added workaround for Mono URL opening bug.
Added workaround for Mono HTML document opening bug.
Improvements:

Improved performance of certain searches.
Various user interface improvements in the search dialog.
Improved keyboard shortcut handling (e.g. Ctrl+Tab and Ctrl+Shift+Tab now also work when the quick search box is focused).
The local configuration file is now loaded only if necessary.
Improved performance of configuration saving.
Changed default key file extension from 'key' to 'keyx'.
Most key file dialogs now only show '*.keyx' and '*.key' files by default.
When clicking the key file 'Browse' button in the master key creation dialog and selecting a file that is not an XML key file, KeePass now asks whether to use the file as key file anyway.
Improved key file loading/saving error messages.
Various user interface improvements in the import/export dialog.
The import/export dialog does not accept relative file paths anymore.
The import/export dialog now shows an error message when trying to export to multiple files.
Removed indeterminate progress indicators while displaying the import/export dialog.
Improved field to standard field mapping function.
Moved command 'Empty Recycle Bin' directly below the 'Delete Group' command.
Moved commands 'Print Group' and 'Export Group' into the 'Data Exchange' popup menu.
Improved quality of some icons.
Improved dialog banner caching.
Improved performance of certain object collection operations.
History entry UUIDs are now fixed automatically.
Increased default value of Argon2 memory parameter.
Improved task dialog parent determination.
The setup program now installs KeePass into a folder in 'C:\Program Files' by default (i.e. without '(x86)' suffix; this is reasonable, because on a 64-bit operating system, KeePass runs as 64-bit application).
Upgraded installer.
Various UI text improvements.
Various code optimizations.
Minor other improvements.
Bugfixes:

Search: regular expressions starting with a '-' are not treated as exclusions anymore.
Fixed a bug that caused KeePass to hang when trying to read a configuration file that contains certain unsupported nodes.

Changes from 2.47 to 2.48:
New features:

New KDBX 4.1 file format, which supports various new features (listed below).
Added support for group tags (KDBX 4.1).
In the entry/group dialogs, there now is a button to show a menu for adding/removing existing tags.
If an entry/group inherits a tag from a parent group, a link is displayed in the entry/group dialog to show the parent groups and their tags.
Added option in the entry dialog for disabling/enabling the password quality estimation for the current entry (KDBX 4.1).
If the password quality estimation is disabled for an entry, the entry is now excluded from password quality reports (menu 'Find' → 'Password Quality').
When moving an entry/group into a different group (e.g. into the recycle bin), the previous parent group is remembered now (KDBX 4.1, not enforcing).
Added command 'Move to Previous Parent Group' (in the 'Rearrange' popup menu; if the command will move all selected entries/groups out of the recycle bin, a '(Restore)' suffix is appended to the command name; if at least one entry/group will be moved into/within the recycle bin, a confirmation dialog is displayed).
Renaming a list view item (if supported, e.g. a file attached to an entry) can now be initiated by pressing the F2 key.
Each custom icon may now have a name, and its last modification time is remembered (KDBX 4.1).
In the icon picker dialog, a custom icon can now be renamed (click on an already selected name or press the F2 key).
In the icon picker dialog, the dimensions and the size of a custom icon are now displayed in a tooltip.
The UUID and the deletion time of a deleted custom icon are remembered now, and this information is used in order to delete the custom icon during a synchronization (if the last modification time is older than the deletion time).
Added built-in URL override for associating the 'ssh' URL scheme with 'SSH.exe' (OpenSSH, included in Windows 10; activatable/deactivatable in 'Tools' → 'Options' → tab 'Integration' → button 'URL Overrides').
Added support for loading images with Exif orientation tags.
Enhanced the LastPass import module to support CSV files created by the latest versions.
Enhanced the nPassword import module to import group tags.
The last modification time of a database-specific custom data item (by a plugin/port) is now saved (KDBX 4.1).
When synchronizing databases, database-specific custom data items (by plugins/ports) are now merged based on their last modification times.
Added support for loading KDBX 4 files created by other applications that do not perform a binary content deduplication.
Added workaround for .NET/Windows TopMost/WS_EX_TOPMOST desynchronization bug.
Improvements:

Various user interface improvements in the group dialog (moved the notes box to the first tab page, moved the auto-type behavior option to the auto-type tab, ...).
Tags are sorted naturally now.
Improved tag handling performance.
Various user interface improvements in the icon picker dialog.
The temporary icon that represents multiple icons (when editing multiple entries at once) is now named '(Multiple values)'.
Improved custom icon handling performance.
The placeholders {HMACOTP} and {TIMEOTP} now automatically add padding to shared secrets in Base32 encoding, if necessary.
Improved error handling of the placeholders {HMACOTP} and {TIMEOTP}.
Internal data viewer/editor: '*.asc', '*.tab' and '*.tsv' files are now treated as text files by default.
The internal data viewer now does not try to display non-HTML files using the web browser control anymore.
Improved error handling of the Bitwarden JSON and nPassword NPW import modules.
Improved merging of custom data items (by plugins/ports) in the KDBX file header.
Improved image hashing.
Improved version display in the 'About' dialog.
Installer: improved file overwriting.
On 64-bit operating systems, the registry value for the setup option 'Optimize KeePass start-up performance' is now created in the 64-bit view of the registry.
ShInstUtil now fully supports Unicode.
Various UI text improvements.
Various code optimizations.
Minor other improvements.
Bugfixes:

The command 'Delete Unused Custom Icons' does not delete icons anymore that are still used by history entries.

Changes from 2.48 to 2.48.1:
Improved compatibility with certain plugins/ports.
In the main entry list, new-line characters in text inserted by a placeholder are now filtered.
Minor other improvements.

Changes from 2.48.1 to 2.49:
New features:

Added dedicated context menu for custom string fields in the entry dialog, which provides the following new commands: 'Copy Name(s)', 'Copy Value(s)', 'Copy Item(s)', 'Paste Item(s)', 'Select All' and 'Move To'.
Added button 'More' to the right of the custom string fields list in the entry dialog, which shows the context menu.
Added dedicated context menu for auto-type associations in the entry dialog, which provides the following new commands: 'Copy Target Window(s)', 'Copy Sequence(s)', 'Copy Item(s)', 'Paste Item(s)', 'Duplicate Item(s)' and 'Select All'.
Added button 'More' to the right of the auto-type associations list in the entry dialog, which shows the context menu.
Added optional 'Auto-Type - Enabled' main entry list column (turned off by default, can be turned on in 'View' → 'Configure Columns').
Added optional 'Auto-Type - Sequences' main entry list column (turned off by default, can be turned on in 'View' → 'Configure Columns').
Added support for importing Keeper 16.0.0 JSON files.
Added option 'Show confirmation dialog when opening a database file whose minor format version is unknown' (in 'Tools' → 'Options' → tab 'Interface', turned on by default).
Added tooltips for some controls.
Dialog banners can now be read by screen readers (if the option 'Optimize for screen reader' is turned on).
Added accessibility names for some controls (text boxes after check boxes, image/color buttons, warning icons, ...; if the option 'Optimize for screen reader' is turned on).
Controls in the accessibility/automation control tree are now ordered by their visual locations (if the option 'Optimize for screen reader' is turned on).
Added automatic screen reader detection based on the operating system's screen reader parameter (this does not make the option 'Optimize for screen reader' obsolete though, because not all screen readers set the parameter).
Various accessibility enhancements (when running on .NET 4.7.1 or higher).
Added UIFlags bit for not clearing the quick search terms list when closing/locking a database.
Added UIFlags bit for enabling the Input Method Editor (IME) on secure desktops.
Added customization option to override the URL that is opened for a help page.
Improvements:

In most list views, tooltips are now displayed for a longer time.
The entry string move commands can now move multiple strings at once.
Removed the entry string button 'Move' in the entry dialog (the move commands are available in the context menu).
Reordered fields/columns in the entry details view and in the 'Configure Columns' dialog for improved consistency with the entry dialog.
When running on .NET 4.7 or higher, rich text boxes now instantiate Rich Edit 4.1 (or higher) controls, which support various new features (e.g. Tamil characters are now displayed correctly even when the 'Latha' font is not installed).
Improved linkification in the entry details view of the main window (URLs, attachments, ...) and in the internal data viewer (URLs).
URLs in the hex view of the internal data viewer are not linkified anymore.
Improved tab order in various dialogs.
Improved accessibility control name provision.
Improved temporary file/directory deletion performance.
Improved hashing of protected binaries, UUIDs, popular passwords, images, ...
Improved quality of some icons.
In the HTML export/printing dialog, the option 'Group name' is now disabled when group names are unavailable.
Reduced space between tables and group headings in HTML exports/printouts.
In the help source selection dialog, controls are now disabled if a help source is enforced (by an enforced configuration file) or if a help URL override is specified.
Improved keyboard shortcut check.
TrlUtil: improved string table handling.
Various CHM file improvements.
Upgraded installer.
Various UI text improvements.
Various code optimizations.
Minor other improvements.
Bugfixes:

The save confirmation dialog of the entry dialog does not create unnecessary history entries anymore.
The tags button drop-down menu in the entry/group dialogs now uses the correct font.
TrlUtil: fixed a string table association bug.

Changes from 2.49 to 2.50:
New features:

On most Windows systems, AES-KDF is now about twice as fast as before.
On most Linux systems, AES-KDF is now about 4 times as fast as before, if the 'libgcrypt' library is installed.
On most Windows systems, Argon2d and Argon2id are now about twice as fast as before (for default parameters).
On most Linux systems, Argon2d and Argon2id are now about 3 times as fast as before (for default parameters), if the 'libargon2' library is installed.
The option 'Enter master key on secure desktop' is now also supported by master key prompt dialogs shown during imports, confirmations (before exporting, printing, changing the master key, ...) and trigger actions.
The option 'Enter master key on secure desktop' is now also supported by master key creation/change dialogs.
The key file/provider combo boxes in the master key dialogs now have a tooltip that shows the current value, if the value is very long.
When running on .NET 4.7.2 or higher, GZip decompression is faster now (i.e. most databases are opened a bit faster, pasting entries from the clipboard is a bit faster, ...).
Added password generation button in the entry string field dialog.
When double-clicking the title cell of an entry in the main entry list while holding down the Shift key, the title is now copied to the clipboard.
Added support for opening URLs with Pale Moon, Epiphany and Midori in private mode.
Enhanced application detection on Unix-like systems (support for certain Snap packages, ...).
Added support for detecting the latest versions of Chromium on Unix-like systems (for 'Open with ...' commands in the 'URL(s)' menu, for the {GOOGLECHROME} placeholder, ...).
In the 'URL(s)' menu, there now are separate commands for Google Chrome and Chromium, if both are installed.
Enhanced support for detecting Vivaldi, Brave, Pale Moon and Epiphany.
Added support for importing Kaspersky Password Manager 9.0.2 TXT files.
Bitwarden import module: added support for importing subfolders, and collection names are now imported as tags.
In the 'About KeePass' dialog, each item in the components list now has a tooltip that shows the file/folder path of the component, if it is installed.
In the 'About KeePass' dialog, a double-click onto a component now shows the component file/folder with the file manager.
In the 'About KeePass' dialog, the components list now has a context menu that provides the following new commands: 'Show with File Manager', 'Copy Version/Status' and 'Copy Path'.
Improvements:

If the option 'An entry matches if one of its tags is contained in the target window title' is turned on, auto-type now additionally considers tags inherited from groups.
The built-in password generation patterns 'Hex Key - *-Bit' now use upper-case hexadecimal symbols.
Improved Spr variance check of the password generator (custom string references, ...).
All commands in the password generator menu (shown by the password generator buttons in entry/string dialogs) support the option 'Show dialog for collecting user input as additional entropy' now.
Improved entropy collection dialog.
Improved control state updating in the master key prompt dialog and in the master key creation/change dialog.
Improved key file existence check in the master key creation/change dialog.
Improved master key construction.
Improved handling of exclusive key providers.
Improved compatibility of some dialogs with plugins that can cancel closing the dialog.
Improved automatic entry selections in the main entry list.
Access key improvements.
Improved entry equality test in order to prevent the creation of unnecessary history entries during certain operations.
XML Replace: improved entry modification detection.
Improved initial input focus in the single edit dialog.
In the import/export dialog, the icon of an import/export module now matches the file/procedure type.
DataVault CSV import module: improved importing of notes.
Improved native buffer handling.
When opening/copying the URL of an entry, the last access time of the entry is updated now.
TrlUtil: added DPI awareness mode declaration.
Various UI text improvements.
Various code optimizations.
Minor other improvements.
Bugfixes:

Column header context menus are not shown for non-report list views anymore.
When copying a URL to the clipboard fails, the main entry list is updated now.
Toggling the password generator option 'Show dialog for collecting user input as additional entropy' now causes a switch to the '(Custom)' profile.
In the TAN wizard dialog, group names containing ampersands are displayed correctly now.

Changes from 2.50 to 2.51:
New features:

Most dialogs with fixed size now detect whether they fit onto the current screen, and when a dialog does not fit (e.g. due to a very high DPI factor), its size is reduced and scroll bars are displayed.
Added plural entry command names in the main window (e.g. the command for editing the currently selected entry/entries is now called either 'Edit Entry' or 'Edit Entries', depending on the number of selected entries).
Added tooltip for the main part of the status bar of the main window.
Enhanced color buttons (tooltips, accessible names, ...) in the entry dialog, in the database settings dialog and in the options dialog.
Added 'Interface (2)' tab page in the options dialog, renamed the existing 'Interface' tab page to 'Interface (1)', moved some controls from 'Interface (1)' to 'Interface (2)'.
Enhanced font selection controls (with a checkbox that allows to return to the default, the button shows the currently selected font, tooltip, improved accessibility, ...) in the options dialog.
Added help links 'Dark theme' and 'Main font (size)' in the options dialog.
The options 'Custom alt. item color' and 'Esc keypress in main window' are now disabled if they are enforced (by an enforced configuration file).
Added support for opening URLs with Waterfox in private mode.
Added dialog for editing (HMAC-based and time-based) one-time password generator settings (can be opened using the 'OTP Generator Settings' commands in the entry dialog or in the 'Edit Entry (Quick)' menu of the main window).
Added entry commands 'Copy HMAC-Based OTP', 'Show HMAC-Based OTP', 'Copy Time-Based OTP' and 'Show Time-Based OTP' (in the 'Other Data' menu).
Added entry commands 'Copy Title' and 'Copy Notes' (in the 'Other Data' menu).
When switching to the 'Generate' tab page of the password generator dialog (no database open), the entropy collection dialog is displayed now, if the option 'Show dialog for collecting user input as additional entropy' is turned on.
Added option 'Colorize password characters' in the HTML export/print dialog; the colors are customizable.
Added options 'Custom main font' and 'Custom password font' in the HTML export/print dialog.
Added horizontal entry separator lines in tabular HTML exports/printouts.
In the plugins dialog, the 'Delete old files from cache automatically' option and the 'Clear' button are now disabled if they are enforced (by an enforced configuration file).
Plugins can now change the expiry date of an entry more easily.
Added workaround for Wine bug 52457.
Improvements:

Improved main window initialization performance.
Improved initial emergence of a minimized or maximized main window (less flickering, improved performance, ...).
Improved names/tooltips of the database toolbar buttons in the main window.
Improved handling of bold/italic list fonts.
Improved entry list update performance in certain situations.
Improved dynamic menu deconstruction performance.
Fields starting with 'HmacOtp-' or 'TimeOtp-' are not shown in the entry string copy menu anymore.
Improved tooltips and accessibility of password repetition text boxes.
When a dark theme is active, the error background color of text boxes is darker now.
Improved accessibility of expiry control groups.
The title of the master key creation/change dialog is now adjusted to the context.
Improved 'Compression' tab page of the database settings dialog (extended 'None' option description, improved accessibility, ...).
If no color has been specified, the 'Custom alt. item color' button in the options dialog now shows the default color.
Improved HTML generation for HTML exports/printouts.
Improved default fonts used when printing or exporting to HTML.
In block HTML exports/printouts, field names are not italic anymore (unless the user has selected an italic main font).
In HTML exports/printouts, all field values except passwords are trimmed now.
HTML exports/printouts: improved encoding of white-space characters in passwords.
Improved horizontal entry separator lines in block HTML exports/printouts.
TrlUtil: improved control classification.
Increased Authenticode certificate key length.
Various CHM/help improvements.
Upgraded installer.
Various UI text improvements.
Various code optimizations.
Minor other improvements.
Bugfixes:

The command line parameter '-preselect:' now works as expected when the option 'Clear master key command line parameters after using them once' is turned on.
Font selections in the options dialog are now applied only when closing the dialog with [OK].

Changes from 2.51 to 2.51.1:
The option 'Use alternating item background colors' is now compatible with automatic sorting again.
Improved entry list update performance when duplicating entries.
Fixed an entry list scrolling bug.
Minor other improvements.

Changes from 2.51.1 to 2.52:
New features:

Added 'Copy Initial Password' command in the tools menu of the entry dialog; it copies (to the clipboard) the password that was current when the dialog was opened.
When multiple entries are selected (containing at least one attachment), the number of attachments is now displayed in the 'Attachments' submenu of the entry menu.
Added option 'Alt. item background color' (supporting the states 'Off', 'On, default color' and 'On, custom color'); this combines the previous two options 'Use alternating item background colors' and 'Custom alt. item color'.
Comment placeholders ({C:...}) may now contain balanced braces.
In the auto-type entry selection dialog, values in the 'Sequence - Comments' column are dereferenced now.
The time when the password of an entry was last changed is now displayed in the entry dialog on the 'History' tab page.
The {FIREFOX} placeholder and the 'URL(s)' menu ('Open with ...' commands) now support detecting the Microsoft Store version of Firefox (in addition to the regular versions).
Added support for importing 1Password 8.7 1PUX files.
Added support for importing Key Folder 1.22 XML files.
Sticky Password XML import: added support for importing groups and expiry dates.
Steganos Password Manager CSV import: added support for the new encoding of double quotes.
Bitwarden JSON import: time-based one-time password generator settings are converted automatically now.
KeePass now checks the 'KeePass.exe.config' file and shows a warning message when finding a problem.
For development builds: added command for showing GC information.
Plugins can now load the header of a database file more easily.
Plugins can now subscribe to a master key change event.
TrlUtil: added workaround for .NET tab control focus bug.
Improvements:

Moved the command 'Save Attached File(s) To' into the 'Attachments' submenu of the entry menu and renamed it to 'Save File(s) To'.
The command for saving attached files is now available only if at least one of the selected entries has at least one attachment.
The {APPACTIVATE ...} auto-type command now ignores the options 'Cancel auto-type when the target window changes' and 'Cancel auto-type when the target window title changes'.
{APPACTIVATE ...} auto-type command: if the specified window does not exist or cannot be focused, auto-type is aborted now.
Unified creation of fields with indices.
Improved database modification state and UI updating after imports/synchronizations.
In the master key creation/prompt dialogs, the [OK] button is now disabled when checking the 'Key file/provider' check box and selecting '(None)' in the combo box.
Improved drop-down menu width adjustment for certain combo boxes in the options dialog.
Improved hashing performance of protected binaries, UUIDs, ...
Performance improvements related to empty arrays.
Improved Mono framework version detection.
TrlUtil: improved preview dialog update performance.
Various UI text improvements.
Various code optimizations.
Minor other improvements.
Bugfixes:

Fixed a bug that caused a minimized main window to be restored to a normal window instead of a maximized window in certain situations.
The 'Help' menu item in the entry dialog and the 'Help' button in the entry string field dialog now open the correct help sections.

Changes from 2.52 to 2.53:
New features:

For each entry listed on the 'History' tab page of the entry dialog, the fields modified with respect to the previous entry are displayed.
Added 'Compare' button on the 'History' tab page of the entry dialog; when two (not necessarily consecutive) history entries are selected, clicking the button shows a detailed comparison (with values, etc.).
When editing an entry, the history entry list of the entry dialog now contains an entry called 'Dialog (unsaved)', which represents all data entered in the current dialog (other tab pages).
When editing an entry, the history entry list of the entry dialog now contains an entry called 'Current (TIME)', which is the entry that is currently stored in the database (without any changes made in the current dialog).
Added 'History' command in the 'Find' main menu; it lists all entry modifications (sorted by time).
Added filter box in most report dialogs (last modified entries, history, large entries, similar password clusters, password quality, history entry comparison, database file search, ...).
Added 'Print' button in most report dialogs.
Added 'Export' button in most report dialogs; supported formats are CSV and HTML.
Added {EDGE} placeholder, which is replaced by the executable path of the new (Chromium-based) Microsoft Edge, if installed.
Added URL override suggestion for Microsoft Edge in private mode in the URL override suggestions drop-down list of the entry dialog.
Added optional built-in global URL overrides for opening HTTP/HTTPS URLs with Microsoft Edge in private mode.
When trying to rearrange entries while automatic sorting is activated, KeePass now asks whether to deactivate automatic sorting.
Added access keys in the tags button drop-down menu of the entry/group dialogs.
Added access keys in the 'View' → 'Sort By' menu.
Added access keys in the entry templates menu.
Added access keys in the 'Perform Auto-Type' menu (which is displayed if the 'Show additional auto-type menu commands' option is turned on).
Added {HMACOTP} and {TIMEOTP} in the 'Perform Auto-Type' menu.
Added keyboard shortcut Ctrl+T for the 'Copy Time-Based OTP' entry data command.
Added keyboard shortcut Ctrl+Shift+T for the 'Show Time-Based OTP' entry data command.
Enhanced Password Depot XML import module to support the new format (added support for the new node names, group icons, recycle bin, tags, favorites, auto-type delay conversion, history, enhanced icon mapping, enhanced date/time parsing, ...).
Added border for headings in HTML exports/printouts.
Added support for running KeePass in FIPS mode.
Improvements:

History entries listed on the 'History' tab page of the entry dialog are now sorted from newest to oldest.
The icons in the list on the 'History' tab page of the entry dialog now indicate the type of the entry.
History entry controls of the entry dialog are now disabled when creating a new entry.
The history entry 'Restore' button is now disabled when any change has been made in the current dialog.
The 'Password modified' time is now updated immediately when deleting a history entry.
Improved URL override suggestion for Microsoft Edge in the URL override suggestions drop-down list of the entry dialog (changed from 'microsoft-edge:{URL}' to 'cmd://{EDGE} "{URL}"').
Improved optional built-in global URL overrides for opening HTTP/HTTPS URLs with Microsoft Edge (changed from 'microsoft-edge:{BASE}' to 'cmd://{EDGE} "{BASE}"').
Reordered web browser URL overrides alphabetically.
Improved dynamic menu item access key assignment.
Improved item separation in the entry details view.
In most places, groups in a group path are now separated by right arrows instead of hyphens.
Improved last modification time comparison for plugin data dictionaries.
Unified generation of common HTML parts.
The 'Copy Initial Password' command in the 'Tools' menu of the entry dialog now requires the 'Copy' application policy flag.
Various UI text improvements.
Various code optimizations.
Minor other improvements.
Bugfixes:

The history entry 'Restore' button now always works as expected.

Changes from 2.53 to 2.53.1:
When testing a KDF ('Test' button in the database settings dialog), KeePass now spawns a child process that performs the KDF computation (which allows to cancel the test more cleanly in the case of excessive parameters; security is unaffected, because dummy data is used for the test).
Removed the 'Export - No Key Repeat' application policy flag; KeePass now always asks for the current master key when trying to export data.
Minor other improvements.

Changes from 2.53.1 to 2.54:
New features:

Triggers, global URL overrides, password generator profiles and a few more settings are now stored in the enforced configuration file.
Added dialog 'Enforce Options (All Users)' (menu 'Tools' → 'Advanced Tools' → 'Enforce Options'), which facilitates storing certain options in the enforced configuration file.
Export confirmation dialog banners now have a yellow-orange background.
In export confirmation dialogs, the text of the 'OK' button is now changed to 'Confirm Export'.
In report dialogs, passwords (and other sensitive data) are now hidden using asterisks by default (if hiding is activated in the main window); the hiding can be toggled using the new '***' button in the toolbar.
The 'Print' command in most report dialogs now requires the 'Print' application policy flag, and the master key must be entered if the 'Print - No Key Repeat' application policy flag is deactivated.
The 'Export' command in most report dialogs now requires the 'Export' application policy flag, and the master key must be entered.
Single line edit dialogs now support hiding the value using asterisks.
On Unix-like systems, commands that require elevation now have a shield icon (like on Windows).
TrlUtil: added 'Move Selected Unused Text to Dialog Control' command.
Improvements:

Improved process memory protection of secure edit controls.
The content mode of the configuration elements '/Configuration/Application/TriggerSystem', '/Configuration/Integration/UrlSchemeOverrides' and '/Configuration/PasswordGenerator/UserProfiles' is now 'Replace' by default.
The built-in override for the 'ssh' URI scheme is now deactivated by default (it can be activated in the 'URL Overrides' dialog).
When opening the password generator dialog without a derived profile, the '(Automatically generated passwords for new entries)' profile is now selected by default, if profiles are enabled (otherwise the default profile is used).
Improved UI update performance in the password generator dialog.
Improved and renamed dialog banner styles.
The separator line of light dialog banners is gray now.
Improved serialization/deserialization of custom configuration settings (used by plugins).
Improved reporting of unknown database header fields.
On Unix-like systems, the clipboard workarounds are now disabled by default (they are not needed anymore on most systems).
Improved clipboard clearing on Unix-like systems.
Improved starting of an elevated process on Unix-like systems.
TrlUtil: improved keyboard shortcut assignment and toolbar construction.
Installer: the desktop shortcut is now created for all users (if the option 'Create a desktop shortcut' is activated).
Installer: removed the Quick Launch shortcut option.
Upgraded installer.
Various UI text improvements.
Various code optimizations.
Minor other improvements.
Bugfixes:

In report dialogs, the 'Print' and 'Export' commands now always use the actual data (in previous versions, asterisks were printed/exported when the application policy flag 'Unhide Passwords' was turned off).
The icon of the custom algorithm options button in the password generator dialog is not cut off anymore.

Changes from 2.54 to 2.55:
New features:

Added 'Compare Entries' command (in the main menu 'Entry' → 'Compare'), which compares the two entries that are selected in the main entry list.
Added 'Mark Entry for Comparison' and 'Compare Entry with Marked Entry' commands (in the main menu 'Entry' → 'Compare'); these two commands support comparing two entries that are stored in different databases (opened in tabs).
Report dialogs can now be closed by pressing the Esc key.
Added option 'Show warning when the key transformation settings are weak' (in 'Tools' → 'Options' → tab 'Security', turned on by default).
The options in the entry/group duplication dialog are remembered now.
The options in the HTML export/print dialog are remembered now.
In dialogs that have a 'Do not show this dialog again' option and multiple commands, the command that will always be used when turning on the option is now mentioned in the dialog.
Added 'More information' link in the dialog that is displayed when KeePass automatically disables enforcement-requiring items.
Added {NEWPASSWORD:/#/P/O/} placeholder, which generates a new password for the current entry using the specified pattern P and the option(s) O.
Added accessible names for some controls (custom keystroke sequence edit control in the auto-type item dialog, filter edit control in report dialogs, a few controls in the password generator dialog; if the option 'Optimize for screen reader' is turned on).
Added 'MasterKeyExpiryForce' configuration setting.
Enhanced Google Chrome passwords CSV import module to support the new format.
Enhanced mSecure CSV import module to support the new format.
Enhanced 1Password 1PUX import module to support the new password field/type.
Improvements:

The toolbar in report dialogs is now a tab stop.
Increased default number of AES-KDF iterations.
Improved syntax highlighting for {CLIPBOARD-SET:...} placeholders (in the auto-type item editing dialog).
The node mode of the configuration element '/Configuration/Meta/PreferUserConfiguration' is now 'None' by default.
Improved INI loading performance.
Improved data size formatting.
Renamed value columns/commands in the history entry comparison dialog from 'A'/'B' to '1'/'2'.
Improved process memory protection of history entry comparisons.
Improved process memory protection of 'CryptoRandomStream' objects.
Improved thread safety of process memory protection on Unix-like systems.
The MSI file is now built using Visual Studio 2022.
Various UI text improvements.
Various code optimizations.
Minor other improvements.
Bugfixes:

Searches using an XPath expression involving history entries now always regard all history entries.
KeePass now does not crash anymore when a plugin tries to upload a file to a server asynchronously.

Changes from 2.55 to 2.56:
New features:

Added search box in the options dialog (keyboard shortcut Ctrl+F).
When pressing the Enter key in the group tree of the main window, the entries of the group are displayed now (this can be useful for instance when the entry list is displaying search results).
Added 'More' button on the 'History' tab page of the entry dialog, which shows a menu that provides the following two new commands: 'Select All Historic Entries' and 'Delete All Historic Entries'; the menu is also shown as context menu of the history entries list.
Added Ctrl+A keyboard shortcut for the 'Select All Historic Entries' command in the entry dialog (the history entries list must have the input focus).
Added workaround for Mono window size bug.
Added accessibility help page.
Improvements:

In the main window, the entry list is now updated when right-clicking onto a group in the group tree.
Expanding/collapsing a group in the group tree of the main window does not select it anymore.
The option 'Remember password hiding setting in the main window' is now turned off by default.
In the auto-type entry selection dialog, comments ({C:...} placeholders) are now removed from the values in the 'Sequence' column if the 'Sequence - Comments' column is displayed.
The view is now restored after syntax highlighting in the sequence box of the auto-type association dialog.
Reduced flickering in the sequence box of the auto-type association dialog.
Improved performance of Spr compilations of certain texts.
Minor process memory protection improvement for the password generator.
Minor process memory protection improvements for some report dialogs.
Improved thread safety of message box management.
Improved UUID object implementation.
Collection equality testing improvements (for plugins).
Various code optimizations.
Minor other improvements.
Bugfixes:

In the main window, the entry list is now updated correctly when performing overlapping keypresses into the group tree.
When cancelling a group drag&drop operation, the group selection is now restored correctly.
Fixed background of CHM help pages.

Changes from 2.56 to 2.57:
New features:

Added option 'Prevent certain screen captures' (in 'Tools' → 'Options' → tab 'Security', turned off by default); note that this may also prevent legitimate other software (remote desktop solutions, accessibility tools such as screen magnifiers, etc.) from seeing KeePass windows.
Added the new option 'Prevent certain screen captures' in the 'Enforce Options (All Users)' dialog (in 'Tools' → 'Advanced Tools' → 'Enforce Options').
Key files can be created on the secure desktop now.
Added shortcut keys for the 'Copy Group (Encrypted)' (Ctrl+Shift+C) and 'Paste Group' (Ctrl+Shift+V) commands.
Ctrl+Shift+V can now be used for pasting entries while the group tree has the input focus and vice versa.
Added 'More' button in the icon picker dialog, which shows a menu that provides two commands: 'Rename' and 'Export'; the menu is also shown as context menu of the custom icons list.
When importing an icon, the file name without extension is now used as icon name.
Added option 'Remember password hiding setting' in the main window column configuration dialog (turned off by default).
Added support for long paths when running on .NET 4.6.2 or higher.
Some error messages now contain the type and the HResult of the exception that occurred.
Some error messages are now more detailed when running KeePass with the '-debug' command line option.
Bitwarden JSON import: two-digit years are now converted to four-digit years.
Added UIFlags bit for automatically adjusting weak key transformation settings to the current default values (without a confirmation dialog).
Added DPI detection on Unix-like systems.
For applications using KeePass as a library: added a new common initialization method ('CommonInitialize') that allows a custom error handling/reporting.
Improvements:

Databases are now always saved in the KDBX 4/4.1 file format; if you need a KDBX 3.1 file (e.g. for compatibility with an old app), perform an export: main menu 'File' → 'Export' → format 'KeePass KDBX (2.34, Old Format)'.
Auto-Type: improved compatibility with Remote Desktop Client (WSL).
In an auto-type error dialog, the sequence is now only displayed if KeePass has been started with the '-debug' command line option.
Increased maximum length of the main window title.
Improved handling of shortcut keys in the main window.
Improved entry data exchange menu update performance.
After moving a group, KeePass now ensures that the group is visible.
Improved database save confirmation dialog text.
When showing the master key creation/change dialog on the secure desktop, trying to perform an operation that is not supported on the secure desktop now results in a simple error message, i.e. it is not possible anymore to choose to cancel the dialog and perform the operation on the normal desktop; this avoids certain accidental data loss scenarios.
Various improvements in the simple file browser dialog (for the secure desktop).
While a hot key control of the options dialog is focused, dialog-specific keyboard shortcuts are now disabled.
Changed the 'MAC Address' password generator profile such that it always generates a unicast, locally administered MAC address in the SLAP administratively assigned quadrant.
In the icon picker dialog: moved the 'Export' command into the 'More'/context menu of the custom icons list.
When running on .NET 4.7 or higher, KeePass now supports all TLS/SSL protocol versions that are supported/enabled by the framework/system.
Improved error messages for exception chains.
Improved serialization, deserialization and conversion of nullable booleans.
Improved deserialization of variant dictionaries.
Improved application context initialization.
Improved termination of the program in case of a fatal exception.
Various UI text improvements.
Various code optimizations.
Minor other improvements.
Bugfixes:

(None).

Changes from 2.57 to 2.57.1:
Added options 'Show confirmation dialog when running/opening a cmd:// URI', 'Show confirmation dialog when evaluating/replacing a {CMD:...} placeholder' and 'Show confirmation dialog when evaluating/replacing a {REF:P@...} placeholder (action)' (in 'Tools' → 'Options' → tab 'Interface (1)', turned on by default).
Added option 'Follow redirects' on the 'Advanced' tab page of the 'Open From URL' dialog.
When an exception occurs while creating/compiling a PLGX file, streams/readers/writers are now closed immediately.
When an exception occurs while a plugin performs a certain web request, streams/readers are now closed immediately.
Refactored code related to streams, import modules, menu/toolbar renderers and registry accesses.
Removed Spamex.com import module.
Minor other improvements.
Many thanks to the German Federal Office for Information Security (Bundesamt für Sicherheit in der Informationstechnik, BSI) and mgm security partners for sponsoring and performing a code analysis of KeePass 2.x (project CAOS 3.0 German, press report German).

No security vulnerabilities classified as medium, high or critical were found. However, two minor potential security vulnerabilities and some improvable code parts were identified. As a result, various improvements have been implemented; see above (version 2.57.1). For details about the code analysis and the improvements, see the release notes.

Changes from 2.57.1 to 2.58:
New features:

When no entry is selected in the entry list of the main window, the details view now displays information of the current group (name, expiry time, tags, notes).
Added option 'Unhide empty data' (in 'Tools' → 'Options' → tab 'Advanced', turned off by default).
On the 'Preview'/'Generate' tab page of the password generator dialog, the average estimated quality of the generated passwords is now displayed.
Added Ctrl+H keyboard shortcut for the 'Show/hide password using asterisks' option in report dialogs.
Added 'User-Agent' header for HTTP/HTTPS/WebDAV web requests.
If Microsoft Edge has been uninstalled, it now no longer appears in the 'URL(s)' menu.
Added 'More Commands' item in the group and entry context menus (it shows the corresponding full menu).
Added 'Status' column in the triggers dialog.
Added support for comments in INI files.
Enhanced CodeWallet TXT import module.
Fatal error messages are now more detailed when running KeePass with the '-debug' command line option.
Added filter for duplicate MRU items (caused by an MRU item with an unsuitable database file path in an enforced configuration file).
Added filter for duplicate key source associations (caused by a key source association with an unsuitable database file path in an enforced configuration file).
Added solution and project files for Visual Studio 2022.
Added workaround for Mono's tree view right-click and context menu handling.
Improvements:

When clicking on a group in the group tree of the main window, all entries are deselected now.
If the currently selected entry does not have parameters for generating time-based one-time passwords, the Ctrl+T and Ctrl+Shift+T keyboard shortcuts are now ignored.
Improved icon handling in certain entry lists (significantly faster creation of such a list when there are many entries with custom icons, reduced memory usage, reduced number of GDI objects, ...).
In the master key prompt dialog, toggling the hiding of the password now does not change the state of the password check box anymore.
When generating passwords for the 'Preview'/'Generate' tab page of the password generator dialog takes too long, it is now aborted.
Replaced status indicators on the 'Preview'/'Generate' tab page of the password generator dialog.
Increased the number of preview passwords to 50.
UI improvements in the trigger editing dialog.
After showing a command/placeholder confirmation dialog (cmd:// URI, {CMD:...} placeholder, {REF:P@...} placeholder), KeePass now focuses the previously focused window.
Renamed 'entry view' to 'details view' (because it can now also display details of a group).
Removed the group/entry duplication commands from the context menus (they continue to be available in the main menu).
Various improvements in some import modules.
Improved UUID zero tests.
The revision component of the assembly version is now invariant.
Improved PLGX cache item identifiers.
Improved project cleanup script.
Upgraded installer.
Various code optimizations.
Minor other improvements.
Bugfixes:

Fixed two image list handling bugs.

Changes from 2.58 to 2.59:
New features:

On Windows 11 24H2 ARM64 and later, KeePass now runs natively, too (i.e. without x64 emulation).
Added KeePassLibN native support library, which provides native implementations of AES-KDF and Argon2 on Windows systems (x86, x64 and ARM64).
New C# AES-KDF implementation (about 30-50 times as fast as before, depending on the system; used when the native support library is unavailable or disabled).
New C# KeePass KDB import/export module, which now makes it possible to import/export KDB files on ARM64 systems and on Unix-like systems, too.
The KeePass KDB import/export module now supports importing and exporting the default user name and the database color.
When exporting a database to a KDB file, the root group is now exported, too.
The 'About KeePass' dialog now displays the architecture of the current process ('x86'/'x64'/'ARM64'/... instead of only '32-bit'/'64-bit').
Added support for opening URLs with Maxthon, SeaMonkey and Yandex in private mode.
On Unix-like systems, URLs in certain views are now linkified.
Some development snapshots can now load DLL plugins.
Added framework-specific solution and project files for Visual Studio 2022.
Improvements:

Encrypting/decrypting databases using the AES algorithm is now faster.
The option for using the native support library now also applies to Argon2.
Native support library settings are now respected when using KeePass as a library (e.g. KPScript or PowerShell script).
When clicking the [OK] button of the options dialog, volatile settings (such as the main window position/size) are now saved, too.
When an exception occurs while exporting data, it is now shown in the status logger dialog, if one is displayed.
Improved formatting of multiline messages in the status logger dialog.
The KeePass KDB import/export module now refuses to use a master key containing an XML key file (because KeePass 1.x does not support XML key files).
The KeePass KDB export module does not export unnecessary auto-type sequence definitions anymore.
Improved removal of dangling custom icon references.
KeePass is now built using Visual Studio 2022.
Increased target framework version.
Improved efficiency of some algorithms that use a set.
Improved creation of AES CSP objects.
Improved project cleanup script.
Removed KeePassLibC native support library (because it is not used by KeePass 2.x anymore; KeePassLibC continues to be available in the KeePass 1.x source code package); the installer deletes it when updating an existing KeePass installation.
Installer: updated native image (NGen) size estimation.
Upgraded installer.
Various UI text improvements.
Various code optimizations.
Minor other improvements.
Bugfixes:

The 'Test' button on the 'Security' tab page of the database settings dialog does not ignore the option for using the native support library anymore.
The KeePass KDB import module does not append a new-line character to notes anymore.
