Shod is an hybrid (tiling and floating) multimonitor X11 window manager.
Shod sets no keybindings; reads no configuration other than X resources;
and works only via mouse with a given key modifier (Alt by default), and
by responding to client messages with EWMH hints (so you must use wmctrl
to control shod).

WARNING: Shod is attempt of mine to write a Wm and better understand how
         X11 works, Shod is only meant for me for educational purposes.
         Shod is an experimental project, and should be used with caution.

WARNING: You must have wmctrl(1) installed in order to control Shod.

Non-features:
• No maximization (Shod uses maximization hints to implement tiling).
• No tags/groups (Shod uses desktops rather than dwm-like tags).
• No viewports (Shod does not support fvwm-like viewports).
• No keybindings (Use sxhkd(1) for binding keys).
• No bar/panels (I do not use panels, so I add no support for them).

Features:
• Shod uses EWMH-based maximization to implement tiled windows; that is,
  when you maximize a window (seting BOTH '_NET_WM_STATE_MAXIMIZED_HORZ'
  and '_NET_WM_STATE_MAXIMIZED_VERT') it is tiled rather than maximized
  (that means that classic maximization isn't possible with shod).
• Shod uses a columnated window tiling style (the same used by wmii(1)
  and acme(1)).  In this style, each window occupies a row in a column.
  In order to change the column of a window, just move it left or right
  with wmctrl(1); and to swap a window with the one above or below, just
  move it up or down.
• Shod places floating windows in unoccupied regions of the monitor.
  The first floating window is spawned in the center of the monitor.
• Shod manages desktops just like how GNOME implements “actions”.  If a
  window is open on an empty desktop, it creates a new empty desktop on
  that monitor.   When a desktop has no window, this desktop is deleted.
• Each monitor has its own set of workspaces.  For example, if you have
  two monitors you will have two desktops being shown at the same time,
  one on each monitor.  In order to change the selected monitor just
  click on a window or on the root window of that monitor.  In order to
  change the monitor of a window just move this window to another
  monitor or move this window to a workspace bound to another monitor.
• You can use the .focusbuttons compile-time option (set in config.h) to
  use either a focus-follow-pointer style or a click-to-focus style.
  You can even specify which mouse button triggers the click-to-focus
  style.  The related .raisebuttons option specify which mouse buttons
  raise a window.
