            FVCOM Software Users’ License Agreement

All users should read this agreement carefully. A user, who receives any version of the source code of FVCOM, must accept all the terms and conditions of this agreement and also agree that this agreement is like any written negotiated agreement signed by you. You may be required to have another written agreement directly with Dr. Changsheng Chen at SMAST/UMASS-D and Dr. Robert C. Beardsley at WHOI
The Finite-Volume Coastal Ocean Model (“FVCOM”) source code has been developed in the Marine Ecosystem Dynamics Modeling Laboratory led by Dr. C. Chen at the University of Massachusetts – Dartmouth (UMASS-D) in collaboration with Dr. R. Beardsley at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution. All copyrights to the FVCOM code are reserved. Unauthorized reproduction and redistribution of this code are expressly prohibited except as allowed in this License.

A. Permitted Use and Restrictions on Redistribution

The user agrees that he/she will use the FVCOM source code, and any modifications to the FVCOM source code that the user may create, solely for internal, non-commercial purposes and shall not distribute or transfer the FVCOM source code or modifications to it to any person or third parties not participating in their primary research project without prior written permission from Dr. Chen. The term "non-commercial," as used in this End User License Agreement, means academic or other scholarly research which (a) is not undertaken for profit, or (b) is not intended to produce work, services, or data for commercial use.

B. Mandatory Participation in the FVCOM Community

The user agrees to openly participate in the FVCOM community through three primary mechanisms. These are (a) reporting code bugs and problems, (b) sharing major modifications made to the code, and (c) contributing to an open and ongoing discussion of model deficiencies, needed improvements and additions, and major successes. (Contact Drs. C. Chen, G. Cowles, or R. Beardsley). These mechanisms are intended to benefit the entire FVCOM user community through quick notification of code problems, possible solutions, major code improvements, and, in general, the further development of the FVCOM source code and the associated software tools needed to process, visualize and interpret FVCOM model output.
