sysutils/yazi: update to 25.2.7

Deprecated

    ya.md5() has been deprecated in favor of the new ya.hash(), in #2168
    The plugin entry file init.lua has been deprecated in favor of the new main.lua, in #2168
    arrow -99999999 and arrow 99999999 have been deprecated in favor of the new arrow top and arrow bot, in #2294
    The --args option in the plugin command has been deprecated in favor of a new 2nd positional parameter, in #2299
    The numeric return value of the preloader has been deprecated in favor of a new boolean return value, in #2253

 - The mount.yazi Plugin

For a long time, I've been receiving requests from users for a mount manager, but never had the time to finish it. But now — it's here!
mount.yazi provides disk mount, unmount, and eject functionality. Done in #2199.

 - Simplification of shell and plugin commands

With #2298, you can now write shell scripts directly after -- (end of options marker). Everything after -- will be treated as raw text, so no more escaping is required, greatly simplifying the writing of complex commands.

 - Replace Mode and Vim Motions (W, E, B, ^, _) for Inputs

The Input component now supports replace mode and several new Vim motions, including:

    W: Move forward to the start of the next WORD
    E: Move forward to the end of the current or next WORD
    B: Move back to the start of the current or previous WORD
    ^: Move to the first non-whitespace character
    _: Move to the first non-whitespace character

Thanks to @dxrcy for the work in #2143!

 - Package Manager Enhancements

The package manager now supports the following new features:

    ya pack -d to delete a package (thanks @MrAsler, #2181)
    Support for adding and removing multiple packages with a single command (thanks @evpeople, #2257)

 - Support Local tmux Image Preview Over SSH

Now, when you start tmux locally, connect to a remote SSH session, and run Yazi on the remote host, you'll get image preview support out of the box.

Done in #2229.

 - New @since Plugin Annotation to Specify the Minimum Supported Yazi Version

You can now optionally specify the minimum supported Yazi version in your plugin.
If specified, and the user's Yazi version is lower than the given version, they will receive an error message preventing the plugin from running accidentally.

Done in #2290

 - New ya.confirm() API

The new ya.confirm() API allows you to show a confirmation prompt to the user.
You can also apply a UI element to the title and content to customize the appearance.
