x11/xlockmore: Update to 5.68

5.68
  Updated xscreensaver port for xscreensaver-6.02.
  Various NetBsd install issues fixed including config.cygport.
  pam vulnerabiliy patch added thanks to Elmar Hoffmann, elho AT elho.net.
    Card vulnerability may remain, see README.
  module fixes for deluxe, eyes, starfish, swirl, text3d2, module use is
    still experimental.
  biof mode removed again (though was not building by default).

5.67
  Fixing specified bound equals destination size warning in iostuff.c.
  Port updated for xscreensaver-6.01.  With help from EoflaOE ViceCity.
     Also removed some warnings.
  maze3d.c updated for VMS as CRTL now contains more standard functions,
    thanks to Jouk Jansen.

5.66
  GL mode atunnels, juggler3d, atlantis, lament, invert, solitaire, text3d,
    and text3d2 fixed up by EoflaOE ViceCity and myself to build in
    xscreensaver.
  bomb, helix, lightning, penrose, petal, scooter fixes for xscreensaver
    port (clear screen issue).  Clock fixed to run by changing a spot from
    "Clock" to "CLOCK".
  A few updates from xscreensaver-5.44/hacks/xlockmore.c for xscreensaver
    port.
  Duplicate resources and unloadable resources for xscreensaver port fixed
    by EoflaOE.
  Double free removed for xscreensaver port fixed by EoflaOE and myself.
  Removed some warnings in xscreensaver port in fzort, rubik, skewb, and
    sproingies.
  Xpm textures added to xscreensaver ports that need them.
  image, puzzle, decay, bat now work but use xscreensaver bitmap/pixmap
    in xscreensaver port.
  Bug fix in qix and toneclock for xscreensaver port, xlock was not
    affected by negative NRAND input.
  euler2d synced up with xscreensaver version.
  Change to fzort to use __asm__ instead of asm as its probably more
    likely to work.
  Fixed solitaire so deckPile changes just a little bit as it doles
    out cards.
  Updated bomb to use size 18 font when USE_MB is not set as it seems
    34 is not widely available anymore.
  pacman now has different colored ghosts (no green ghost) and also
    oscillating dress and eyes.  See README for a notice for this mode.
  Fixed some bad drawings in solitaire and pacman noticed on
    Windows side.
  Warnings removed for -Wstrict-prototypes -Wmissing-prototypes
    -Wdeclaration-after-statement

5.65
  Fix from Jan Kratochvil and Adrian Reber, adrian AT lisas.de for Fedora.
    xlock -startCmd true... would core on Fedora, exit() replaced with
    _exit().
  Update for magick.c to use strncpy thanks to Jouk Jansen.

5.64
  Fix for hyper mode from original author, for potential but not
    likely memory leak and free(NULL) issue John Heidemann, johnh
    AT isi.edu.
  More buffer gcc warnings removed for dclock.c, image.c, and
    scrnsave.c.
  ras.c/magick.c gcc 10 fix from Adrian Reber, adrian AT lisas.de .
    VMS already handles this in make.com.

5.63
  Lots of spelling errors fixed due to codespell
    https://manpages.debian.org/testing/codespell/codespell.1.en.html
  A few more gl modes (molecule, invert) fixed up by
    EoflaOE ViceCity to run in xscreensaver.
  Added additional changes to solitaire and invert.  invert will
    build in xscreensaver with some coaxing, see README in
    xscreensaver directory.
  Removed buffer gcc warning about nose.c.

5.62
  Fix from brett.diamond AT gmail.com to get "xlock -help" from
    crashing.
  As a Blake's 7 fan, I had to add the Liberator to star mode.

5.61
  Same fix from Jouk Jansen and Adrian Reber, adrian AT lisas.de
    for juggler3d.cc in previous release.
  Change from Denys Vlasenko (thanks to Adrian Reber for pointing out)
    https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=874484
    This helps xlock's parent process to know xlock crashed.
  ico mode added truncated octahedron.
  Another  gl mode, sierpinski3d, fixed up by EoflaOE ViceCity to run
    in xscreensaver.

5.60
  Updated references to website to https.  https://www.sillycycle.com
  A few more gl modes (incl. maze3d, pipe, sproingies) fixed up by
    EoflaOE ViceCity to run in xscreensaver.

5.59
  Thanks to tobik, ohartmann AT walstatt.org, and Jason Helfman,
    jgh AT FreeBSD.org for xglock fixes for "failed due to signal" for
    clang.
  Syncing with xscreensaver and many modes modified, more than
    half working there.  pacman and puzzle run but need some
    obvious work, others run too fast or flash on the screen.
    Various fixes from Jouk Jansen and EoflaOE ViceCity.
    Updated GL modes also, inaddition to overlap: biof, skewb, and
    fire (needs images). See xscreensaver/README for new directions.
  Updated in linux to build with modules, must have broken somewhere
    down the line.  imake build fixed too.
  bomb mode fixed for xlock.

5.58
  Syncing with xscreensaver.  Much has changed since last time this
    was done and much left to do.  Nonglx "a"'s and some "b"'s done
    so far.  Automata modes like ant.c should use automata.c and
    automata.h supplied by xlockmore.
    ball bat not working right there yet.  Also bouboule to do right will
    require changes to xlockmore files from xscreensaver.
    See new xscreensaver/README for instructions.
  While testing uncovered old security bug in anenome mode and fixed.

5.57
  life updates to use a more standard notation for nontotalistic cellular
    automata.
  ax_pthread.m4 needed for autoconf, added back in, oops.
  Removed VMS caddr_t fix from matrix.c, cage.c, gears.c, glplanet.c,
    invert.c, juggler3d.c, lament.c, moebius.c, molecule.c, morph3d.c,
    noof.c, pipes.c, rubik.c, sierpinski3d.c, skewb.c, stairs.c,
    superquadrics.c as no longer needed.  Thanks to Jouk Jansen.
  boxed and maze3d modes added thanks mainly to Jouk Jansen.
  boxed added to xlock95.scr.  xlock95 Makefile now builds to 64 bit.

5.56
  Thanks to Jason Helfman, jgh AT FreeBSD.org for sound installation fixes.
  Thanks to Tobias Kortkamp, for his patch for glock compile issue with
     CLANG 6.0.0.
  Fixing warnings using clang for back.xpm, nose.c, passwd.c.
  Fixing errors using g++ for deluxe.c, also various casting added.
  Fixing potential some buffer overruns pointed out in mingw in
    apollonian.c and hyper.c.
  Fixing potential error of using null pointer thanks again to mingw in
    xlock.c.
  pyro2 was not showing anything on screen due to it not finding font,
    changed it to default to mode_font if can not find.

5.55
  Thanks to Dave Odell, dmo2118 AT gmail.com for his fzort mode update to
    use the functions in xshm.c and fixes crash when running X11 over network.
  Note from Dave Odell:
    <https://www.jwz.org/xscreensaver/xscreensaver-5.37.tar.gz>. MI_INIT() is
    defined and documented in hacks/xlockmore.h, with related functions
    defined in hacks/xlockmore.c.  MI_INIT() currently takes three parameters:
    the ModeInfo *, the state array, and a function pointer for the new free
    hook. FWIW, it could instead be just the first two parameters, with the
    free hook being set up like the other ModeHooks; this would be a bit
    nicer, I think. But I was going for something that could be applied
    incrementally to individual screenhacks in XScreenSaver, and could -- in
    theory -- be brought back to xlockmore with minimal impact.
  ant mode resync'd with xscreensaver...  Thanks to David Odell redoing my
    sad attempt.
  -sound configuration changed around so it should work on more machines,
    now uses DEF_PLAY and play.sh by default.
  Thanks to Stanislav Brabec, sbrabec AT suse.cz for his "hack" to fix for
    PAM with non-English locales.  He notes to fix properly a "Password"
    prompt list should be obtained at the initial phase of authentication.
    Added PAM_PASSWORD_PROMPT for using old way.
  Fixed leak in scooter thanks to Valgrind.

5.54
  Thanks to Dave Odell, dmo2118 AT gmail.com for his strange mode
    updates to include aligned_malloc.[ch], thread_util.[ch], xshm.[ch],
    and visual_pixmap_depth() from XScreenSaver.  Also updates for building
    macOS and Debian for crypt.  Made safe for VMS by Jouk Jansen.
  juggle fixed for multiscreens.

5.53
  Goofed on last VMS xmlock update.
  dclock fix for led bounce.  :)  Added to windows port but only graphical
    part.
  Windows port fixed petri black screen.  Added anemone and deluxe but turned
    off double buffering to get default black screen.

5.52
  Install changes for fortune. VMS xmlock build update.
  Thanks to Dave Odell, dmo2118 AT gmail.com for his strange mode
    updates.  New options -points N and -curve N .  Also now working
    for windows port (which led to bubble and ifs porting easily).

5.51
  life3d updates including a distinct 18 neighborhood using rhombic
    dodecahedrons (neighoborhood -18 as there is already 18
    neighborhood), and a 22 neighborhood using tetrahedrons, i.e. the
    tetrahedral part of alternated cubic honeycomb
  Less compile warnings and configure update.

5.50
  -messagefont was broken if USE_MB set (default from 5.42). E.g.:
    -mode dclock -messagefont "-*-times-*-*-*-*-18-*-*-*-*-*-*-*"
  Changed default message font to above.
  Should now compile with less warnings.
  spiral erase mode changed from 100 iterations to 8.
