Version 1.33, released 2013-03-30.
  It brings long options, a new double overwrite mode (-2) and
  a man page.

Version 1.32 
  has a new option -x to append to the output file
  and you can specify -Y (multiple times if you wish so) to
  write the same data to secondary output files.

Version 1.31 (2013-02-03) 
  brought a few tiny improvements in the output (such as
  displaying the total elapsed time in the summary as opposed to
  ETA of 0, and the amount of data really written with option
  -W). But importantly, it has the new mode of triple
  overwriting of data (options -3 and -4), with random numbers,
  inverse random numbers, new random numbers (only for -4) and
  zeros, this way allowing paranoia-safe deletion of
  information.

Version 1.30 (2013-01-25) 
  brought a fix for outputting data to stdout and a fix for a
  possible double free operation (introduced in 1.29). The
  message formatting has been streamlined a bit. The PRNG can
  now be initialized from a file (e.g. -Z /dev/urandom). The
  program now can also avoid writing to a target block if the
  target block already has the same data (option -W). Think of
  SSDs or other devices where you want to avoid writes.

In Version 1.29 (2013-01-22) 
  a bug was fixed, where the last bytes where not copied
  corrected if hardbs == softbs. 1.29 also brings a number of
  new features; the ability to write the same (softbs sized)
  block again and again (option -R, automatically set if infile
  is /dev/zero), the ability to limit transfer size such that
  the outfile won't be enlarged (-M) and the possibility to use
  userspace random numbers (libc/frandom) to fill files with
  random data (options -z and -Z). Last not least, OBS also
  builds .deb binaries for Ubu12.04 / Deb6 now.

Version is 1.28 (released 2012-05-19) 
  uses better defaults for hard and softblock sizes (4k/64k
  for buffered I/O, 512/1M for direct IO), as suggested by Jan
  Kara. Also the copying of access times with the option -p
  was fixed.

Version 1.27 
  allowed to do 512b direct IO (which is possible in latest
  Linux kernels) -- idea and patch from Jan Kara. Change
  posix_memalign() variable assignment. It has a number of
  fixes from Valentin Lab; most importantly, when exiting
  because of an error, it updates the variables that are
  output. dd_rescue now avoid specal characters in the
  logfile. It handles situations gracefully, where wrong
  positions resulted in the progress graph causing
  faults. Some come from illegal input (negative offset ...),
  which is nw detected.

Version 1.25 
  contains a fix for spurious "Success" messages that resulted
  from overwritten (cleared) errno. Bad blocks are formatted
  in a way that they are not overwritten on screen and block
  numbers are output as unsigned.

Version 1.24 
  contains a compile fix for Linux versions that contain the
  splice syscall but not the other definitions. I also allows
  for specifying a directory (such as ".") as output filename
  in which case dd_rescue just appends the input file basename
  to it, just like cp does. Maybe most importantly, the RPM
  now contains the latest version of dd_rhelp (0.1.2).
